.TH MAILFILTER "1" "March 2007" Mailfilter "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
mailfilter \- Filters e-mail, gets rid of spam
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mailfilter
[\fIOPTION\fR]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
Mailfilter is a very flexible utility to get rid of unwanted spam mails,
before having to go through the trouble of downloading them into the local
computer. It offers support for one or many POP accounts and is especially
useful for dialup connections via modem, ISDN, etc.
.PP
Mailfilter connects to any POP mail box and compares part of its content to a
set of user defined filter rules. That way the spam gets deleted directly on
the mail server.
.PP
With Mailfilter you can define your own filters (rules) to determine which
e-mails should be delivered and which are considered waste. Rules are Regular
Expressions, so you can make use of familiar options from other mail delivery
programs such as 
.BR procmail (1)
for example.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The mailfilter program normally returns 0 but -1 if an error occurs.
However, if it has been invoked with the return-value command line switch,
it gives back a positive integer in case there are messages on the POP
server.  Empty POP accounts would then result in a return value of 0.
Using the switch, mailfilter can be embedded into a shell script more
easily.
.SH "CONFIGURATION"
The behaviour of Mailfilter is controlled by command-line options and a
configuration file. The program will not start without it. Example
configurations can be looked up in the
.BR mailfilterex (5)
man page, in the INSTALL document or inside the doc/ directory of the
Mailfilter distribution.
.PP
By default Mailfilter tries to read $HOME/.mailfilterrc to get all its settings
from. This is the place where all changes should be made, unless it is
explicitly specified otherwise. A comprehensive list of all supported options
and keywords can be found in the
.BR mailfilterrc (5)
man page.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display help information
.TP
\fB\-L\fR, \fB\-\-logfile\fR=\fIFILE\fR
Specify logfile location
.TP
\fB\-M\fR, \fB\-\-mailfilterrc\fR=\fIFILE\fR
Specify rcfile location
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-return-value\fR
Enable additional return values
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-test\fR
Simulate deletes
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR=\fILEVEL\fR
Specify level of verbosity
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Display version information
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR mailfilterrc (5),
.BR mailfilterex (5),
.BR procmail (1),
.BR regex (7)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2000-2007 Andreas Bauer <baueran@in.tum.de>
.PP
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
